Section C is risk management.
Although it's only four columns,
it's still very, very important.
And the reason that we have a risk management section
is we never want to have too much exposure
to a certain stock or to a certain ETF fund,
and when we do the diversification exercise
later in the course, you will see that
I don't want you to ever own more than say 5%
of your portfolio in one stock,
and never more than 10% of your portfolio
in total in commodities, etc.
There's a bunch of rules that I personally made up
and if you want, you can look at the diversification rules
right now but don't spend too much time on this yet please
because we will cover this is exercise number 24.
Okay, so moving back to C,
which is our Risk Management four columns.
All right, here we go, good.
So here, this is a red flag because,
and I made it appear as a red flag
with my conditional formatting
because we have too much money in one stock, right?
That's 100% of our portfolio in Apple,
and obviously, we've only entered in one stock here
so it wouldn't, that wouldn't change yet
but when we enter in more information on other stocks,
if we still have more than say 5% of our portfolio
in one stock, it'll still be a red flag.
I like to have less than 5% if possible,
and that flag will change to green if it's 5% or less.
Okay, moving on.
Now this measures our exposure to sectors, okay?
So we can see that four of our stocks
in this hypothetical portfolio
are information technology stocks,
and I never want you to have too much exposure
to one sector, right, and see how this is red,
and to be fair, I've not entered in data
for other stuff yet, so we don't know our exact exposure
to industrials or consumer staples,
but I did make this red automatically
because there's too much exposure to one sector,
which is technology.
And if you're curious and you're a techie or a nerd
like I am, you can always just go up here
and look to see where I got all of this information from,
but if it's an S&P 500 stock,
then I'm gonna automatically pull up here for you
what sector the stock is in.
Okay, and these are not part of the S&P 500
because they're ETF indexes, so they are for,
I don't have the sector listed here.
Okay, anyway, moving on.
This here is the beta.
Now beta measures how volatile a stock is
relative to the stock market.
So I want you to accept this.
The stock market index, the S&P 500 in this case,
has a beta of one, okay, and stocks that have a beta
above one are more volatile than the S&P,
meaning they go up and down more, they're riskier,
and stocks that have a beta below one are less volatile
than the S&P mean; they go up and down less
than the S&P does, okay?
And that's a measure of risk.
And so less risky stocks have a beta of one or below,
because they're less risky, meaning they don't move as much,
as much as the stock market does.
Vice versa, more risky stocks,
especially newer tech companies have high betas
'cause they're very speculative, right, and so
some of these companies have a beta close to two times,
these risky ones, and so here's what we'll do actually.
Let's go to Yahoo Finance, and take a look at
what the beta is for.
Yahoo Finance, as of right now, doesn't let me
download this information in here,
and I want you to enter it in also because it's something
that you have to understand as well,
as beta is probably one of the best measures of risk.
Okay, so, and for you calculus people out there,
beta is just the rise over the run or the derivative,
how volatile the stock is relative to the market.
Okay, so let's go here to Apple, AAPL.
Okay, let's go to the stock, it's coming,
and we're gonna look at the beta.
Okay, so the beta on Apple is 1.34 and that's not that high
for a tech stock, right?
Some more speculative stocks have much higher betas,
so let's go and enter that in to our portfolio here, 1.34.
So I just want you to be aware of how volatile
the stock is, relative to the market,
and I don't want to nerd out too much here,
but when I worked at a big hedge fund in the past,
what I would do is I would calculate what I owned
on a beta-adjusted basis.
So I would take the beta times the dollar value
of the stock that I own, and then what I can do
is I can calculate the beta exposure for each stock.
So I would just go this times,
and then you can go back here and multiply it
by the size of the position.
So Apple actually, on a beta-adjusted basis
is $2,345 dollars, right, and so
if you wanted to enter this in here
and actually speak English to Excel,
meaning instead of referencing certain cells,
what you can do is this.
This is pretty cool.
So we can highlight the data here
and what I will do is I'm gonna name this here,
Size of Position.
So I go up here, I got Size of Position, see?
Enter, okay.
And you'll see that that will make sense in a second.
Watch this.
So let's say I'm here and I'm like,
"Okay, what's my beta times the size of my position?"
So I'll go here times, and I'm like, "Wait a second.
"I don't remember where I wrote the position.
"Oh, okay. I'll just go size of,"
and see how it drops down here, Excel is so cool, man.
Watch, size of, I'll do it again.
Here we go, size of position,
enter, and there.
That's the dollar size of our position
on a beta-adjusted basis.
Double-click so you can see the math there,
the logic I should say, okay.
And I'm gonna nerd one more time.
I'm now going to delete that and let's name this here
Beta, so we can speak English to Excel.
So we'll go here, Beta, enter.
Okay, good.
And let's go here, and let's take the beta,
whoops, beat, times the size of position.
How awesome is Excel, man?
And there, it calculates it for you.
And then you could drag down if you wanted to
and just do the other calculations here.
Now there's nothing that appears in this cell
and what you can do is if you had that formula in,
you can type this.
I'll go up here.
I can say IFERROR, okay, so if it's not an error, show that.
If it is an error, I can write N/A,
and you'll see I have N/A a lot.
Cool, right?
All right, great.
So let me delete this.
You could play around with that if you want,
and then in the second to last section of the course,
I'm gonna go into a lot of detail
on how I made this entire spreadsheet from scratch.
Even if you have no Excel experience at all,
I want to explain it to you in simple-to-understand terms
just because I'm a nerd and I love Excel.
If you have any questions about section C,
please let me know.
Otherwise we will move on to section D,
where we will discuss sector and stock drivers
in the next lesson.
Thanks.